
# Catalog-centric Test Deployment
>💡 Checkout the [EWC Community Hub Item Test Automation - Operational Procedures](https://confluence.ecmwf.int/x/fz9sJQ) page for complementary documentation.


A python script containing the business logic executed by [GitHub Actions](../../workflows/) when testing Item deployment in batches.


## Features
* Orchestrates downstream concurrent test deployment workflows.
* Authenticates via short-lived tokens generated by the [EWC Community Hub CI Orchestrator GitHub App](https://github.com/ewcloud/ewc-community-hub/settings/installations).

## Test Inclusions
Items to be tested are filtered by a combination of the following conditions (logical AND):
1. the value of the `ITEM_TECHNOLOGY_ANNOTATIONS`env var is equivalent to the `annotations[].technology` attribute values
2. the value of the `ITEM_OTHERS_ANNOTATIONS`env var is equivalent of the `annotations[].others` attribute values
3. the presence of the `values` attribute in the Item's metadata
4. the `items.<item key>.name` attribute values is in the list of names in the `ITEM_NAMES`env var (optional)

## Test Exclusions
Items to NOT be tested can be specified by:
1. the `items.<item key>.name` attribute values is in the list of names in the `EXCLUDED+ITEM_NAMES`env var (optional).
If set, overrides all inclusion criteria for the specified items.

## Test Deployment Methods
Tests are dispatched according to the metadata annotations `others`. The deployment options include Items' native (Ansible CLI,
Terraform CLI, etc.) OR EWCCLI:

1. **Native:** If deploying Items via their native method, the orchestrator forwards as input any attributes/values of the
 `items.<item key>.values` metadata within `items.yaml` BUT adding a mutation: `inputSpec` attributed is serialized and
 forwarded downstream as JSON-string with attribute name `inputSpecJson`.
 
    >💡  See example compatible downstream workflow file at
 https://github.com/ewcloud/ewc-ansible-playbook-flavours-and-provisioning/blob/76abcbad92b9122866c91d9ed1d9a0b35dc490e3/.github/workflows/test-ecmwf.yml#L1-L95

2. **EWCCLI:** If deploying via the EWCCLI, the orchestrator only forwards the Item name and the git ref of the branch where the
orchestrator was triggered. Any additional attributes/values are parsed by the EWCCLI directly from the catalog in the downstream
workflow.
    >💡 Checkout an example of a compatible downstream workflow file at
https://github.com/ewcloud/ewccli/blob/3405f8bf2aa458c5efaca8d646dff0a54d7191ee/.github/workflows/test-deployment-ansible-ecmwf.yml#L1-L63

## Development

### Getting started

1. Setup `python` virtual environment with version `3.12+`. Then install the all requirements:


```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

```bash
pip install -r dev-requirements.txt
```

2. Setup the values for the input environmental variables listed in [main.py](main.py#L17-L26)

3. Make and test code changes locally

4. Apply coding style guidelines:

```bash
./apply-coding-style.sh
```